Introduction

Software Engineering is one of the fastest growing fields today, not only in industrial America, but in the global economy. This rapidly-evolving environment requires Software Engineering educational institutions and educators to adopt innovative changes in their curriculums in order to provide future professionals with the necessary skills to be competitive and expose them to the most common issues facing Software Engineers in today’s global industry. Precisely because of this globalization, more and more companies are designing software in virtual distributed environments across national boundaries, and so educational institutions have felt the need to restructure their curriculums to reflect this change in the industry by encouraging and simulating team software development in such an environment. This evolution of the pedagogy of Software Engineering in our educational institutions, however, presents new challenges to instructors and traditional methodologies for student evaluation. Therefore, having the proper tools to thoroughly examine team and individual student progress and participation within team class projects in virtual development environments has become of paramount importance for instructors and institutions alike.

In view of these challenges and capitalizing on the opportunity it provides, InfinityNet will provide cutting-edge and unique tools to instructors who choose the Java.net development platform as part of a Software Engineering class curriculum by allowing them to monitor the participation of individual students in globally and/or locally distributed Java.net group projects as well as the progress of the team as a whole. InfiniftyNet will be an efficient, automated, and user-friendly web application that collects and reports student participation metrics for such class settings. The application allows an instructor or set of instructors in different locations (i.e. different concurrent SE courses taking place in different universities) to automatically collect participation data for a set of Java.net projects and report on its members’ contribution to the project at all stages of development. Because InfinityNet understands that the ease of use and low training, upkeep & maintenance requirements of any software tool are of vital importance to instructors, the system initial set-up will automatically generate the available metrics categories available for the given projects, whilst retaining full control by the instructor to modify these at any point throughout the semester.

We believe that information is power. That’s why our system will provide instructors with the ability to collect and view a wide ranging variety of metrics from Java.net projects as well as other capabilities outside of this environment that will give more depth to the data when evaluating a team and its members; and the it will provide instructors with insightful information about trends or blockages that may arise in the development and learning processes. Our tool’s seamless integration with the Java.net platform, the valuable data it can extract & present –from granular to global, and its insignificant maintenance overhead will allow instructors to focus their efforts in the most important aspect of their task: teaching. InfinityNet will thus enable and improve the quality of learning for students by having an instructor who is more aware and involved in the progress of the class and its individuals.



REMOVE: By real estate example:

What is the market?
What can we achieve in this market?
Importance of achieving this market.


What is our project?
What is special about it?
Why is this sure to work? (Tools)


How are we catching the changing market?
Ease of use for super-users.
Ease of use for sub-users.
What is the main goal of our software?


Important (new) features? Labeled?
Explain (new) features.
How is this (new) feature great and superior?
How does this (new) feature allow achieving the market?





Executive Summary of the project, explaining why we should get funded, our solution represents a better alternative to the existing ones (if any).
